NMS-13938: Update Requisitions Docs (#5327)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/development/pages/rest/rest-api.adoc

[[rest-api]]
= REST API

A RESTful interface is a web service conforming to the REST architectural style as described in http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596529260[_RESTful Web Services_].
This section describes the RESTful interface for {page-component-title}.

== REST URL

The base URL for REST calls is `http://opennmsserver:8980/opennms/rest/`.
For instance, `http://localhost:8980/opennms/rest/alarms/` will give you the current alarms in the system.

== Authentication

Use HTTP basic authentication to provide a valid username and password.
By default, you will not receive a challenge, so you must configure your REST client library to send basic authentication proactively.

== Data format

Jersey enables {page-component-title} to create REST calls using either XML or JSON.
By default, it returns a request to the API as XML data, delivered without namespaces.

> NOTE: If a namespace is added manually in order to use a XML tool to validate against the XSD (for example, xmllint), it won't be preserved when OpenNMS updates that file.

Reviewer: This sentence is difficult to parse. To clarify: are there other scenarios when a namespace might be added manually and if so, will it still not be updated. OR does this behaviour happen when the namespace is added manually in this particular situation?

Author: From what I understand, a user may add a namespace manually in order to use an XML tool for validations. In cases where the namespaces are manually added, they won't be preserved when OpenNMS updates the file containing it.

Reviewer: I suggest rephrasing with what you just wrote to make it clearer:

```suggestion
NOTE: If a namespace is added manually (for example, to use an XML tool like xmllint to validate against the XSD), it won't be preserved when OpenNMS updates the file that contains that namespace.
```

> NOTE: If a namespace is added manually in order to use a XML tool to validate against the XSD (for example, xmllint), it won't be preserved when OpenNMS updates that file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If a namespace is added manually in order to use an XML tool to validate against the XSD (for example, xmllint), it won't be preserved when OpenNMS updates that file.
```

> NOTE: If a namespace is added manually in order to use a XML tool to validate against the XSD (for example, xmllint), it won't be preserved when OpenNMS updates that file.

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: If a namespace is added manually (for example, to use an XML tool like xmllint to validate against the XSD), it won't be preserved when OpenNMS updates the file that contains that namespace.
```

The same applies to comments.

To receive JSON-encoded responses, you must send the `Accept: application/json` header with the request.

== Standard parameters

The following are standard parameters available on most resources:

[options="header" "autowidth", cols="1,2"]
|===
| Parameter
| Description

| `limit`
| An integer that limits the number of results returned.

> This is particularly handy for events and notifications, where sending an accidental call with no limit could result in thousands of results being returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is particularly useful for events and notifications, where sending an accidental call with no limit could result in thousands of results being returned.
```

Such a load could negatively affect the client or the server.
+
If set to 0, no limit is applied.

| `offset`
| An integer representing the numeric offset from which results should start being returned from the total set of results.
For example, if there are 100 result entries total, the `offset` is 15, and the `limit` is 10, then entries 15-24 will be returned.
Used for pagination.

> 2+| *Filtering*: All properties of the entity being accessed can be specified as parameters in either the URL (for GET) or the form value (for PUT and POST).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2+| *Filtering*: You can specify all properties of the entity being accessed as parameters in either the URL (for GET) or the form value (for PUT and POST).
```

If the properties are specified as parameters, their values will be used to add filters to the result set.
By default, the operation is equality, unless the `comparator` parameter is sent.

> In that case, `comparator` applies to _all_ comparisons in the filter. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that case, `comparator` applies to all comparisons in the filter. +
```

Specifying multiple properties will result in an implicit `AND` operator between the elements.

| `eq`
| Checks for equality.

| `ne`
| Checks for non-equality.

| `ilike`
| Case-insensitive wildcarding (`%` is the wildcard).

| `like`
| Case-sensitive wildcarding (`%` is the wildcard).

| `gt`
| Greater than

| `lt`
| Less than

| `ge`
| Greater than or equal to

| `le`
| Less than or equal to

> 2+| *Ordering*: Results can be sorted by a specified parameter by defining the `orderBy` and `order` parameters in a request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2+| *Ordering*: Define the `orderBy` and `order` parameters in a request to sort results by a specified parameter.
```

By default, the results are ordered by ascending.

| `orderBy`
| Defines the parameter by which to sort the results of a request (for example, the ID).

| `order`
| Defines the method used to sort request results (either ascending or descending).
|===

If `null` is passed as the value for a property, then the obvious operation will occur.
In other words, the comparator will be ignored for that property.
`notnull` is handled similarly when passed as a property variable.

== Standard filter examples

Using `/events` as a base, the following table shows examples of REST calls with defined filters:

[options="header" "autowidth", cols="1,2"]
|===
| Resource
| Description

| `/events?eventUei=uei.opennms.org/internal/rtc/subscribe`
| Returns the first 10 events with the rtc subscribe UEI.
10 is the default limit for events.

| `/events?eventUei=uei.opennms.org/internal/rtc/subscribe&limit=0`

> | Returns _all_ rtc subscribe events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Returns all rtc subscribe events.
```

This could potentially return quite a few results, and may impact performance.

| `/events?id=100&comparator=gt`
| Returns the first 10 events with an `ID` greater than 100.

| `/events?eventAckTime=notnull`
| Returns the first 10 events that have a non-null `AckTime` (in other words, those that have been acknowledged).

| `/events?eventAckTime=notnull&id=100&comparator=gt&limit=20`
| Returns the first 20 events that have a non-null `AckTime` and an `ID` greater than 100.

> Note that the `notnull` value causes the comparator to be ignored for eventAckTime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `notnull` value causes the comparator to be ignored for `eventAckTime`.
```

Note that the same comparator applies to both property comparisons.
You must also URL encode the plus sign (`+`) when using GET.

| `/events?orderBy=id&order=desc`
| Returns the 10 latest events inserted.

ifndef::opennms-prime[]
| `/events?location.id=MINION`
| Returns the first 10 events associated with a node in the `MINION` location.
endif::opennms-prime[]
|===

== HTTP return codes

The following apply to OpenNMS Horizon versions 18.0+:

* DELETE requests return 202 (ACCEPTED) if they are performed asynchronously.
Otherwise, they return 204 (NO_CONTENT) on success.
* All PUT requests return 204 (NO_CONTENT) on success.
* All POST requests that can either add or update an entity return 204 (NO_CONTENT) on success.
* All POST requests associated with resource addition return 201 (CREATED) on success.
* All POST requests where it is required to return an object return 200 (OK).
* All requests except GET for the requisitions endpoint and the foreign sources definitions endpoint return 202 (ACCEPTED).
This is because the requests are performed asynchronously.
Because of that, there is no way to know the status of the execution or wait until the processing is done.

> * If a resource is not modified during a PUT request, NOT_MODIFIED will be returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If a resource is not modified during a PUT request, NOT_MODIFIED is returned.
```

* Any problem related to incoming parameters (for example, validations) generates 400 (BAD_REQUEST).

== Identifying resources

Some endpoints deal in resources, which are identified by resource IDs.
Since every resource is ultimately parented under a node, identifying the parent node is the first step in constructing a resource ID.
Two styles are available for identifying the node in a resource ID:

[options="header" "autowidth", cols="1,2"]
|===
| Style
| Description
| Example

| `node[ID]`
| Identifies a node by its database ID, which is always an integer.
| `node[42]`

| `node[FS:FID]`
| Identifies a node by its `foreign-source` name and `foreign-ID`, joined by a single colon.
| `node[Servers:115da833-0957-4471-b496-a731928c27dd]`
|===

The node identifier is followed by a period, then a resource-type name and an instance name.
The instance name's characteristics may vary from one resource-type to the next.
A few examples:

[options="header" "autowidth", cols="1,2"]
|===
| Value
| Description

| `nodeSnmp[]`
| Node-level (scalar) performance data for the node in question.
This type is the only one where the instance identifier is empty.

| `interfaceSnmp[eth0-04013f75f101]`

> | A layer two interface as represented by a row in the SNMP `ifTable`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| A layer 2 interface as represented by a row in the SNMP `ifTable`.
```
One of the times we should use the numeral instead of word. :-)
